So we already know how to protect the app from being abused by some types of fields, but unfortunately
the list is not complete yet.
We often need arbitrary data.
For example, a name, surname, title, message post or any other plaintext content.
It cannot be cast it to a special type, and it doesn't follow any defined pattern.
And we don't really know what to expect from user, so we can't do such during the validation as before.
For example, if we ask for a message title, it could be one of these.
But also one of these.
All of them seem valid, although the last three can get us into trouble if they are passed directly
to the query or displayed on page.
So what do we do first?
You can do some basic validation, like checking their input, length, or checking if they match some
loose pattern.
For example, if the user is about to enter the street address, we can't expect any strict pattern
for that, but we can assume it will contain at least three non whitespace characters and at least one
digit.
And these codes do exactly that in BGP and in JavaScript.
And the violation logic heavily depends on what the field is for.
If it's for a message subject or post title, well you can check the input length.
But apart of that, it's totally up to the user.
We can't filter out anything here for security, for example, quotes or angled brackets, because as
we saw a while ago, they can be legitimate.
Actually, in most cases, we cannot do any filtering or records validation at all.
But what we definitely must do if we use Unicode is check the string against invalid Unicode characters
or sequences.
These are dangerous because a string of invalid Unicode characters can evaluate to correct ASCII characters,
which you don't want in the input.
In BHP, this check can be done with a pretty trivial regex.
How does it work?
Then the magic is achieved with this new flag.
It will cause the break much function to match nothing if this object is invalid or in other words,
if it contains invalid UTF eight characters or sequences.
The s flag will make the interpreter match all characters, including newlines, with a dot meter character
in the pattern.
Although fairly simple, this code snippet isn't particularly easy to remember, so I would wrap it
with a function.
And I wouldn't bother verifying that on the front end, no legitimate user would ever type an invalid
Unicode character, and the attacker will know how to bypass the JavaScript validation.
Another kind of unwanted input in an arbitrary string is a steamer called A Popular Way to avoid any
potential HTML.
When you expect a regular plain text is to strip the tags out of the string, which in VB would be done
by calling the strip tax function.
It might seem a good idea, especially to prevent any malicious HTML trying to carry out a cross-site
scripting attack.
But this function is not very clever.
It's rather a quick and dirty methods to remove HTML tags, and there's a couple of problems with it.
First, the content may have angled brackets used in a legitimate way.
For example, to mean less dumb and greater than this function would just strip anything that it finds
between angler brackets.
So why is A less than B would become?
Why is A not what we wanted?
And some people also use them with a dash to form an arrow.
In all such cases, the strip tags mechanisms will falsely recognize these as the HTML code and will
remove a portion of the content which seemed to eat as HTML.
But in reality it wasn't.
Another problem with that function is its second argument, which allows us to specify a collection
of permitted bags, for example, B and I to let the users make the text bold or italic.
If only you allow at least one tag here.
The potential cross-site scripting protection coming from this function is pretty much over.
How can either be or I could be dangerous.
How about this?
This is a successful cross-site scripting attempt that uses a seemingly plain and innocent B tag.
The function permits the tag, but doesn't work for its attributes, which can contain inline scripts
and styles.
Want another example?
This one will execute the script in the on error attribute as there is clearly no image under the you
are a x.
For both these reasons, I wouldn't bother eliminating any potential HMO taxes this way.
So what's the conclusion in case of user input that we can validate in any reasonable way other than
checking the minimum length, optionally checking against the loose pattern and checking the invalid
Unicode chars and sequences.
We only need to make it safe for later use by sanitizing it using prepared statements to avoid equal
injection attacks when putting the data in as Google query and escaping HTML special chars to avoid
cross-site scripting attacks when putting the data on page so that the potential code will be displayed
rather than interpreted, we will learn how to do all of that in the upcoming chapters.
The situation could get much worse because sometimes we actually do expect an arbitrary estimate of
input from user, which as we just saw, is difficult to handle securely.
This can be, for example, a form input where the user has a visual or code editor, but it might as
well be a web service or something which simply allows the content formatted as HTML.
There are two things you can do with HTML code displayed like a code snippet in documentation or actually
interpret it so that P will make paragraph A will make a link, etc. In order to display the code,
you simply have to properly escape any meaningful team of characters to avoid cross-site scripting attacks.
The code will then stop being the working code, but instead a string of characters that looks like
a code.
It's exactly the same process.
We need to apply for any arbitrary text input.
Instead of stripping thanks, we learn how to do it in the cross-site scripting chapter.
But when it comes to validating the input for actual use, this is a minefield.
Before we go any further, let me discourage you from writing any validation rules by yourself, any
regular expressions, etc..
Always use a dedicated library for that.
One of the well tested and actively maintained libraries for this in BGP is a email purifier.
I will discuss how it works in the cross-site scripting chapter as well.
Other types of structured content are Jason and XML in both, but especially in example, the syntax
is very strict yet robust so they can easily be validated.
But luckily many programming languages have built in parsing functions for both those formats.
So in fact the validation of it is as easy as trying to pass it with a dedicated function.
See example of validating JSON in BGP by trying to parse it with the JSON decode function.
If BHP is not able to create a valid JSON object, the JSON last error function will return an adequate
error code in case the JSON parsing was successful.
The error code will be JSON error or none.
So then we know the JSON was valid.
In JavaScript, you would use a pass method of the JSON object inside the trigger statement.
If it cannot pass the data, it will throw a syntax error exception.
And then, you know, the input was not a valid JSON.
Passing exam is similar in each bead.
There's a bunch of eczema related extensions, one of which is simple examiner.
The first example here is a simple example load file function that needs a path to the XML file.
And if the parsing was not successful, it will simply return false.
We need to use a strict comparison that is three equal signs.
To ensure this really is a boolean false and not some valid example that evaluates to false.
The second example uses a similar function.
Simple example load string that expects an exam a string.
Here again, if it can't create a valid simple example element object from that string, it will return
boolean false.
There's a couple of attacks that the target application, which bars XML files, most of them attempts
to overload and eventually kill the server by sending to complex or invalid structures.
But one of them, which is called external entities, occurs when the malicious XML abuses the entities
feature.
For example, trying to gain access to system files to prevent it in versions prior to 8.0.
It's recommended to call the the disable entity loader function, which disables external entities completely.
Since 8.0, the external entities are disabled by default, so this instruction is not needed.
In JavaScript you can validate XML by trying to parse it using DOM parser.
It has a pass from string method to which you pass an exam of string and the main type.
It then returns the document or XML document object.
And if there was a passing error, then we don't get any false or null button error document its document
elements.
No, the name will be parser error.
So we just check whether this is what we got or not.
Okay.
So using those methods, we only know that what we are dealing with is a structurally valid JSON or
XML inputs, but this input still can contain something intended to carry out an attack as fuel injection,
cross-site scripting or any other.
The fact that the JSON or X-MODE has been successfully passed does not necessarily mean that there are
no traps inside before using the data in your app.
You should thoroughly examined each piece of data stored in the JSON or XML according to your business
logic.
Just like we were doing it in the whole chapter.
Especially watch out for any unexpected tags or attributes in XML files.